docs/database.md, before:

# Database Documentation

## Overview

The application uses **SQLite** as the local database for storing metadata, tracked artists, posts, and subscriptions. The database is accessed exclusively through the **Main Process** using **Drizzle ORM** for type-safe queries.

## Database Location

The database file is stored in the Electron user data directory:

- **Windows:** `%APPDATA%/NSFW Booru Client/metadata.db`
- **macOS:** `~/Library/Application Support/NSFW Booru Client/metadata.db`
- **Linux:** `~/.config/NSFW Booru Client/metadata.db`

**Implementation:**

```typescript
const DB_PATH = path.join(app.getPath("userData"), "metadata.db");
```

## Schema

### Table: `artists`

Stores information about tracked artists/users.

| Column            | Type                           | Description                                 |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| `id`              | INTEGER (PK, AutoIncrement)    | Primary key                                 |
| `name`            | TEXT (NOT NULL)                | Artist display name                         |
| `tag`             | TEXT (NOT NULL, UNIQUE)        | Tag or username for tracking                |
| `type`            | TEXT (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 'tag') | Type: "tag" or "uploader"                   |
| `api_endpoint`    | TEXT (NOT NULL)                | Base API endpoint URL                       |
| `last_post_id`    | INTEGER (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0)  | ID of the last seen post                    |
| `new_posts_count` | INTEGER (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0)  | Count of new, unviewed posts                |
| `last_checked`    | INTEGER (NULL)                 | Timestamp of last API poll (timestamp mode) |
| `created_at`      | INTEGER (NOT NULL)             | Creation timestamp (timestamp mode, ms)     |

**Schema Definition:**

```typescript
export const artists = sqliteTable("artists", {
  id: integer("id", { mode: "number" }).primaryKey({ autoIncrement: true }),
  name: text("name").notNull(),
  tag: text("tag").notNull(),
  type: text("type", { enum: ["tag", "uploader", "query"] }).notNull(),
  apiEndpoint: text("api_endpoint").notNull(),
  lastPostId: integer("last_post_id").default(0).notNull(),
  newPostsCount: integer("new_posts_count").default(0).notNull(),
  lastChecked: integer("last_checked", { mode: "timestamp" }),
  createdAt: integer("created_at", { mode: "timestamp" })
    .notNull()
    .$defaultFn(() => new Date()),
});
```

**TypeScript Types:**

```typescript
export type Artist = typeof artists.$inferSelect;
export type NewArtist = typeof artists.$inferInsert;
```

### Table: `posts`

Caches post metadata for filtering, statistics, and download management. Supports progressive image loading with preview, sample, and full-resolution URLs.

| Column         | Type                                   | Description                                   |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `id`           | INTEGER (PK, AutoIncrement)            | Internal post ID                              |
| `post_id`      | INTEGER (NOT NULL)                     | Post ID from external API                     |
| `artist_id`    | INTEGER (FK → artists.id)              | Reference to artist                           |
| `file_url`     | TEXT (NOT NULL)                        | Direct URL to full-resolution media file      |
| `preview_url`  | TEXT (NOT NULL)                        | URL to low-resolution preview (blurred)       |
| `sample_url`   | TEXT (NOT NULL, DEFAULT '')            | URL to medium-resolution sample               |
| `title`        | TEXT                                   | Post title                                    |
| `rating`       | TEXT                                   | Content rating (safe, questionable, explicit) |
| `tags`         | TEXT                                   | Space-separated tags                          |
| `published_at` | TEXT                                   | Publication timestamp (as string)             |
| `created_at`   | INTEGER (NOT NULL)                     | When added to local database (timestamp ms)   |
| `is_viewed`    | INTEGER (BOOLEAN, NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0) | Whether post has been viewed                  |

**Unique Constraint:** `(artist_id, post_id)` - Prevents duplicate posts per artist.

**Schema Definition:**

```typescript
export const posts = sqliteTable(
  "posts",
  {
    id: integer("id", { mode: "number" }).primaryKey({ autoIncrement: true }),
    postId: integer("post_id").notNull(),
    artistId: integer("artist_id")
      .notNull()
      .references(() => artists.id, { onDelete: "cascade" }),
    fileUrl: text("file_url").notNull(),
    previewUrl: text("preview_url").notNull(),
    sampleUrl: text("sample_url").notNull().default(""),
    title: text("title").default(""),
    rating: text("rating").default(""),
    tags: text("tags").notNull(),
    publishedAt: text("published_at"),
    createdAt: integer("created_at", { mode: "timestamp" })
      .notNull()
      .$defaultFn(() => new Date()),
    isViewed: integer("is_viewed", { mode: "boolean" })
      .default(false)
      .notNull(),
  },
  (table) => ({
    uniquePostPerArtist: unique().on(table.artistId, table.postId),
  })
);
```

**TypeScript Types:**

```typescript
export type Post = typeof posts.$inferSelect;
export type NewPost = typeof posts.$inferInsert;
```

### Table: `subscriptions`

Stores user subscriptions to tag combinations.

| Column            | Type                          | Description                                      |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `id`              | INTEGER (PK, AutoIncrement)   | Primary key                                      |
| `tag_string`      | TEXT (NOT NULL, UNIQUE)       | Tag search string (e.g., 'tag_a, tag_b, -tag_c') |
| `last_post_id`    | INTEGER (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0) | ID of last seen post for this subscription       |
| `new_posts_count` | INTEGER (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0) | Count of new posts matching tags                 |

**Schema Definition:**

```typescript
export const subscriptions = sqliteTable("subscriptions", {
  id: integer("id", { mode: "number" }).primaryKey({ autoIncrement: true }),
  tagString: text("tag_string").notNull().unique(),
  lastPostId: integer("last_post_id", { mode: "number" }).notNull().default(0),
  newPostsCount: integer("new_posts_count", { mode: "number" })
    .notNull()
    .default(0),
});
```

## Database Architecture

All database operations are performed through a **dedicated Worker Thread** to prevent blocking the main Electron process. The architecture uses an RPC (Remote Procedure Call) pattern with correlation IDs for request/response matching.

### Worker Thread Architecture

**Database Worker** (`src/main/db/db-worker.ts`):

- Runs in a separate Node.js worker thread
- Handles all SQLite operations using Drizzle ORM
- Executes migrations on initialization
- Provides thread-safe database access

**Database Worker Client** (`src/main/db/db-worker-client.ts`):

- Client interface for communicating with the worker thread
- Manages worker lifecycle (initialization, termination)
- Provides async/await interface over worker RPC calls
- Handles backup and restore operations

### Initialization

```typescript
import { DbWorkerClient } from "./db/db-worker-client";

const dbWorkerClient = new DbWorkerClient(DB_PATH);
await dbWorkerClient.initialize();
```

**Note:** The worker thread is automatically initialized when `DbWorkerClient` is created. Migrations run automatically on worker initialization.

### Available Methods (via Worker Client)

All database operations are accessed through `DbWorkerClient.call()` method, which communicates with the worker thread via RPC.

#### `getTrackedArtists(): Promise<Artist[]>`

Retrieves all tracked artists, ordered by username.

**Example:**

```typescript
const artists = await dbWorkerClient.call("getTrackedArtists");
```

#### `addArtist(artistData: NewArtist): Promise<Artist>`

Adds a new artist to track.

**Example:**

```typescript
const newArtist: NewArtist = {
  name: "Example Artist",
  tag: "tag_name",
  type: "tag",
  apiEndpoint: "https://api.rule34.xxx",
  lastPostId: 0,
  newPostsCount: 0,
};

const savedArtist = await dbWorkerClient.call("addArtist", newArtist);
```

#### `deleteArtist(id: number): Promise<void>`

Deletes an artist and all associated posts (cascade delete).

**Example:**

```typescript
await dbWorkerClient.call("deleteArtist", { id: 123 });
```

#### `getPostsByArtist(params: { artistId: number; limit?: number; offset?: number }): Promise<Post[]>`

Retrieves posts for a specific artist with pagination.

**Parameters:**

- `params.artistId: number` - Artist ID
- `params.limit?: number` - Number of posts to retrieve (default: 1000)
- `params.offset?: number` - Number of posts to skip (default: 0)

**Example:**

```typescript
// Get first 50 posts
const posts = await dbWorkerClient.call("getPostsByArtist", {
  artistId: 123,
  limit: 50,
  offset: 0,
});

// Get next 50 posts (page 2)
const nextPosts = await dbWorkerClient.call("getPostsByArtist", {
  artistId: 123,
  limit: 50,
  offset: 50,
});
```

**Note:** The IPC method `getArtistPosts` uses a limit of 50 posts per page for better performance.

#### `savePostsForArtist(params: { artistId: number; posts: NewPost[] }): Promise<void>`

Saves posts for an artist. Updates artist's `lastPostId` and increments `newPostsCount`.

**Example:**

```typescript
const newPosts: NewPost[] = [
  {
    postId: 12345,
    artistId: 1,
    fileUrl: "https://...",
    previewUrl: "https://...",
    rating: "s",
    tags: "tag1 tag2 tag3",
    publishedAt: "1234567890",
  },
];

await dbWorkerClient.call("savePostsForArtist", {
  artistId: 1,
  posts: newPosts,
});
```

#### `getSettings(): Promise<{ userId: string; apiKey: string } | undefined>`

Retrieves stored API credentials. Returns encrypted API key (needs decryption in Main Process).

**Example:**

```typescript
const settings = await dbWorkerClient.call("getApiKeyDecrypted");
if (settings) {
  // API key is encrypted, decrypt using SecureStorage
  const decryptedKey = SecureStorage.decrypt(settings.apiKey);
}
```

#### `saveSettings(params: { userId: string; apiKey: string }): Promise<void>`

Saves or updates API credentials. API key should be encrypted before saving.

**Example:**

```typescript
const encryptedKey = SecureStorage.encrypt("your-api-key");
await dbWorkerClient.call("saveSettings", {
  userId: "123456",
  apiKey: encryptedKey,
});
```

#### `markPostAsViewed(params: { postId: number }): Promise<void>`

Marks a post as viewed in the database.

**Example:**

```typescript
await dbWorkerClient.call("markPostAsViewed", { postId: 123 });
```

#### `searchArtists(params: { query: string }): Promise<{ id: number; label: string }[]>`

Searches for artists in the local database by name or tag.

**Example:**

```typescript
const results = await dbWorkerClient.call("searchArtists", {
  query: "artist",
});
```

#### `backup(): Promise<{ backupPath: string }>`

Creates a timestamped backup of the database.

**Example:**

```typescript
const result = await dbWorkerClient.call("backup");
console.log(`Backup created at: ${result.backupPath}`);
```

#### `restore(backupPath: string): Promise<void>`

Restores the database from a backup file. Worker thread is terminated and reinitialized after restore.

**Example:**

```typescript
await dbWorkerClient.restore("/path/to/backup.db");
```

## Migrations

### Generating Migrations

When modifying the schema (`src/main/db/schema.ts`), generate a migration:

```bash
npm run db:generate
```

This creates a new migration file in the `drizzle/` directory.

### Running Migrations

Migrations are automatically run on application startup via `src/main/db/migrate.ts`.

**Manual execution:**

```bash
npm run db:migrate
```

### Migration Files

Migrations are stored in `drizzle/`:

- SQL files: `0000_*.sql`
- Metadata: `meta/_journal.json`
- Snapshots: `meta/*_snapshot.json`

**Example Migration:**

```sql
CREATE TABLE `artists` (
  `id` integer PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT NOT NULL,
  `username` text NOT NULL,
  `api_endpoint` text NOT NULL,
  `last_post_id` integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
  `new_posts_count` integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
  `last_checked` integer,
  `created_at` integer DEFAULT (unixepoch()) NOT NULL
);
```

## Drizzle ORM

### Configuration

**File:** `drizzle.config.ts`

```typescript
export default defineConfig({
  schema: "./src/main/db/schema.ts",
  out: "./drizzle",
  dialect: "sqlite",
  dbCredentials: {
    url: "./metadata.db",
  },
});
```

### Query Examples

**Select All Artists:**

```typescript
const artists = await db.query.artists.findMany({
  orderBy: [asc(schema.artists.username)],
});
```

**Find Artist by ID:**

```typescript
const artist = await db.query.artists.findFirst({
  where: eq(schema.artists.id, artistId),
});
```

**Insert Artist:**

```typescript
const result = await db
  .insert(schema.artists)
  .values(artistData)
  .returning({ id: schema.artists.id });
```

**Update Artist:**

```typescript
await db
  .update(schema.artists)
  .set({
    lastPostId: newPostId,
    newPostsCount: count,
    lastChecked: new Date(), // Uses timestamp mode
  })
  .where(eq(schema.artists.id, artistId));
```

## Database Studio

Drizzle Kit provides a database studio for viewing and editing data:

```bash
npm run db:studio
```

This opens a web interface at `http://localhost:4983` (default).

## Best Practices

### 1. Type Safety

Always use Drizzle's inferred types:

```typescript
// Good
const artist: Artist = await dbService.getTrackedArtists()[0];

// Bad
const artist: any = await dbService.getTrackedArtists()[0];
```

### 2. Error Handling

Always handle database errors:

```typescript
try {
  const artist = await dbService.addArtist(data);
} catch (error) {
  logger.error("Database error:", error);
  throw error;
}
```

### 3. Transactions

For multiple related operations, use transactions:

```typescript
// Example (to be implemented)
await db.transaction(async (tx) => {
  await tx.insert(schema.artists).values(artistData);
  await tx.insert(schema.posts).values(postData);
});
```

### 4. Indexes

Add indexes for frequently queried columns:

```typescript
// Example (to be added)
export const artists = sqliteTable(
  "artists",
  {
    // ... columns
  },
  (table) => ({
    usernameIdx: index("username_idx").on(table.username),
  })
);
```

## Backup and Recovery

### Backup

The application provides built-in backup functionality:

1. **Manual Backup:** Use `window.api.createBackup()` or the Backup Controls UI component
2. **Backup Location:** Backups are stored in the user data directory with timestamped filenames
3. **Backup Format:** Full SQLite database copy

**Example:**

```typescript
const result = await window.api.createBackup();
if (result.success) {
  console.log(`Backup created at: ${result.path}`);
}
```

### Recovery

**Using the Application:**

1. Use `window.api.restoreBackup()` or the Backup Controls UI component
2. Select a backup file from the file dialog
3. Application will automatically restart after restore

**Manual Recovery:**

If the database becomes corrupted and you need to restore manually:

1. Stop the application
2. Locate the backup file (in user data directory)
3. Copy the backup file to replace `metadata.db`
4. Restart the application (migrations will run automatically)

**Note:** The application will automatically reload after restore to ensure all components are reinitialized with the restored data.

## Performance Considerations

1. **Worker Thread Isolation:** Database operations run in a separate thread, preventing main process blocking
2. **Indexes:** Add indexes on frequently queried columns
3. **Batch Operations:** Use transactions for multiple inserts
4. **Query Optimization:** Use Drizzle's query builder efficiently
5. **Connection Pooling:** SQLite uses a single connection in the worker thread (better-sqlite3)
6. **RPC Pattern:** Worker communication uses correlation IDs for efficient request/response matching

## Future Enhancements

Planned database improvements:

- ⏳ **Full-text search indexes for tags (FTS5):** Planned but not implemented
  - **Current:** Standard indexes only (`artistIdIdx`, `isViewedIdx`, `publishedAtIdx`, `isFavoritedIdx`)
  - **Target:** FTS5 virtual table for efficient tag searching
  - **Status:** See [Roadmap](./roadmap.md#-technical-improvements-from-audit) for implementation plan
- Post deduplication logic
- Statistics tables for analytics
- Export/import functionality
- Database compaction utilities

Commit message:

chore: update README and database documentation for favorites system implementation
- Enhanced README to reflect the complete implementation of the favorites system, including the `isFavorited` database field and toggle functionality.
- Updated database documentation to specify the new `isFavorited` field and its role in managing favorite posts.
- Clarified the status of the Safe Mode/NSFW Filter in the roadmap, noting the inclusion of the `isSafeMode` field in the database schema while highlighting the need for UI implementation.

docs/database.md, after:

# Database Documentation

## Overview

The application uses **SQLite** as the local database for storing metadata, tracked artists, posts, and subscriptions. The database is accessed exclusively through the **Main Process** using **Drizzle ORM** for type-safe queries.

## Database Location

The database file is stored in the Electron user data directory:

- **Windows:** `%APPDATA%/NSFW Booru Client/metadata.db`
- **macOS:** `~/Library/Application Support/NSFW Booru Client/metadata.db`
- **Linux:** `~/.config/NSFW Booru Client/metadata.db`

**Implementation:**

```typescript
const DB_PATH = path.join(app.getPath("userData"), "metadata.db");
```

## Schema

### Table: `artists`

Stores information about tracked artists/users.

| Column            | Type                           | Description                                 |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- |
| `id`              | INTEGER (PK, AutoIncrement)    | Primary key                                 |
| `name`            | TEXT (NOT NULL)                | Artist display name                         |
| `tag`             | TEXT (NOT NULL, UNIQUE)        | Tag or username for tracking                |
| `type`            | TEXT (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 'tag') | Type: "tag" or "uploader"                   |
| `api_endpoint`    | TEXT (NOT NULL)                | Base API endpoint URL                       |
| `last_post_id`    | INTEGER (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0)  | ID of the last seen post                    |
| `new_posts_count` | INTEGER (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0)  | Count of new, unviewed posts                |
| `last_checked`    | INTEGER (NULL)                 | Timestamp of last API poll (timestamp mode) |
| `created_at`      | INTEGER (NOT NULL)             | Creation timestamp (timestamp mode, ms)     |

**Schema Definition:**

```typescript
export const artists = sqliteTable("artists", {
  id: integer("id", { mode: "number" }).primaryKey({ autoIncrement: true }),
  name: text("name").notNull(),
  tag: text("tag").notNull(),
  type: text("type", { enum: ["tag", "uploader", "query"] }).notNull(),
  apiEndpoint: text("api_endpoint").notNull(),
  lastPostId: integer("last_post_id").default(0).notNull(),
  newPostsCount: integer("new_posts_count").default(0).notNull(),
  lastChecked: integer("last_checked", { mode: "timestamp" }),
  createdAt: integer("created_at", { mode: "timestamp" })
    .notNull()
    .$defaultFn(() => new Date()),
});
```

**TypeScript Types:**

```typescript
export type Artist = typeof artists.$inferSelect;
export type NewArtist = typeof artists.$inferInsert;
```

### Table: `posts`

Caches post metadata for filtering, statistics, and download management. Supports progressive image loading with preview, sample, and full-resolution URLs.

| Column         | Type                                   | Description                                   |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `id`           | INTEGER (PK, AutoIncrement)            | Internal post ID                              |
| `post_id`      | INTEGER (NOT NULL)                     | Post ID from external API                     |
| `artist_id`    | INTEGER (FK → artists.id)              | Reference to artist                           |
| `file_url`     | TEXT (NOT NULL)                        | Direct URL to full-resolution media file      |
| `preview_url`  | TEXT (NOT NULL)                        | URL to low-resolution preview (blurred)       |
| `sample_url`   | TEXT (NOT NULL, DEFAULT '')            | URL to medium-resolution sample               |
| `title`        | TEXT                                   | Post title                                    |
| `rating`       | TEXT                                   | Content rating (safe, questionable, explicit) |
| `tags`         | TEXT                                   | Space-separated tags                          |
| `published_at` | INTEGER (NOT NULL)                     | Publication timestamp (timestamp mode, ms)    |
| `created_at`   | INTEGER (NOT NULL)                     | When added to local database (timestamp ms)   |
| `is_viewed`    | INTEGER (BOOLEAN, NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0) | Whether post has been viewed                  |
| `is_favorited` | INTEGER (BOOLEAN, NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0) | Whether post has been favorited               |

**Unique Constraint:** `(artist_id, post_id)` - Prevents duplicate posts per artist.

**Schema Definition:**

```typescript
export const posts = sqliteTable(
  "posts",
  {
    id: integer("id", { mode: "number" }).primaryKey({ autoIncrement: true }),
    postId: integer("post_id").notNull(),
    artistId: integer("artist_id")
      .notNull()
      .references(() => artists.id, { onDelete: "cascade" }),
    fileUrl: text("file_url").notNull(),
    previewUrl: text("preview_url").notNull(),
    sampleUrl: text("sample_url").notNull().default(""),
    title: text("title").default(""),
    rating: text("rating").default(""),
    tags: text("tags").notNull(),
    publishedAt: integer("published_at", { mode: "timestamp" }).notNull(),
    createdAt: integer("created_at", { mode: "timestamp" })
      .notNull()
      .$defaultFn(() => new Date()),
    isViewed: integer("is_viewed", { mode: "boolean" })
      .default(false)
      .notNull(),
    isFavorited: integer("is_favorited", { mode: "boolean" })
      .default(false)
      .notNull(),
  },
  (table) => ({
    uniquePostPerArtist: unique().on(table.artistId, table.postId),
  })
);
```

**TypeScript Types:**

```typescript
export type Post = typeof posts.$inferSelect;
export type NewPost = typeof posts.$inferInsert;
```

### Table: `subscriptions`

Stores user subscriptions to tag combinations.

| Column            | Type                          | Description                                      |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `id`              | INTEGER (PK, AutoIncrement)   | Primary key                                      |
| `tag_string`      | TEXT (NOT NULL, UNIQUE)       | Tag search string (e.g., 'tag_a, tag_b, -tag_c') |
| `last_post_id`    | INTEGER (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0) | ID of last seen post for this subscription       |
| `new_posts_count` | INTEGER (NOT NULL, DEFAULT 0) | Count of new posts matching tags                 |

**Schema Definition:**

```typescript
export const subscriptions = sqliteTable("subscriptions", {
  id: integer("id", { mode: "number" }).primaryKey({ autoIncrement: true }),
  tagString: text("tag_string").notNull().unique(),
  lastPostId: integer("last_post_id", { mode: "number" }).notNull().default(0),
  newPostsCount: integer("new_posts_count", { mode: "number" })
    .notNull()
    .default(0),
});
```

## Database Architecture

All database operations are performed through a **dedicated Worker Thread** to prevent blocking the main Electron process. The architecture uses an RPC (Remote Procedure Call) pattern with correlation IDs for request/response matching.

### Worker Thread Architecture

**Database Worker** (`src/main/db/db-worker.ts`):

- Runs in a separate Node.js worker thread
- Handles all SQLite operations using Drizzle ORM
- Executes migrations on initialization
- Provides thread-safe database access

**Database Worker Client** (`src/main/db/db-worker-client.ts`):

- Client interface for communicating with the worker thread
- Manages worker lifecycle (initialization, termination)
- Provides async/await interface over worker RPC calls
- Handles backup and restore operations

### Initialization

```typescript
import { DbWorkerClient } from "./db/db-worker-client";

const dbWorkerClient = new DbWorkerClient(DB_PATH);
await dbWorkerClient.initialize();
```

**Note:** The worker thread is automatically initialized when `DbWorkerClient` is created. Migrations run automatically on worker initialization.

### Available Methods (via Worker Client)

All database operations are accessed through `DbWorkerClient.call()` method, which communicates with the worker thread via RPC.

#### `getTrackedArtists(): Promise<Artist[]>`

Retrieves all tracked artists, ordered by username.

**Example:**

```typescript
const artists = await dbWorkerClient.call("getTrackedArtists");
```

#### `addArtist(artistData: NewArtist): Promise<Artist>`

Adds a new artist to track.

**Example:**

```typescript
const newArtist: NewArtist = {
  name: "Example Artist",
  tag: "tag_name",
  type: "tag",
  apiEndpoint: "https://api.rule34.xxx",
  lastPostId: 0,
  newPostsCount: 0,
};

const savedArtist = await dbWorkerClient.call("addArtist", newArtist);
```

#### `deleteArtist(id: number): Promise<void>`

Deletes an artist and all associated posts (cascade delete).

**Example:**

```typescript
await dbWorkerClient.call("deleteArtist", { id: 123 });
```

#### `getPostsByArtist(params: { artistId: number; limit?: number; offset?: number }): Promise<Post[]>`

Retrieves posts for a specific artist with pagination.

**Parameters:**

- `params.artistId: number` - Artist ID
- `params.limit?: number` - Number of posts to retrieve (default: 1000)
- `params.offset?: number` - Number of posts to skip (default: 0)

**Example:**

```typescript
// Get first 50 posts
const posts = await dbWorkerClient.call("getPostsByArtist", {
  artistId: 123,
  limit: 50,
  offset: 0,
});

// Get next 50 posts (page 2)
const nextPosts = await dbWorkerClient.call("getPostsByArtist", {
  artistId: 123,
  limit: 50,
  offset: 50,
});
```

**Note:** The IPC method `getArtistPosts` uses a limit of 50 posts per page for better performance.

#### `savePostsForArtist(params: { artistId: number; posts: NewPost[] }): Promise<void>`

Saves posts for an artist. Updates artist's `lastPostId` and increments `newPostsCount`.

**Example:**

```typescript
const newPosts: NewPost[] = [
  {
    postId: 12345,
    artistId: 1,
    fileUrl: "https://...",
    previewUrl: "https://...",
    rating: "s",
    tags: "tag1 tag2 tag3",
    publishedAt: "1234567890",
  },
];

await dbWorkerClient.call("savePostsForArtist", {
  artistId: 1,
  posts: newPosts,
});
```

#### `getSettings(): Promise<{ userId: string; apiKey: string } | undefined>`

Retrieves stored API credentials. Returns encrypted API key (needs decryption in Main Process).

**Example:**

```typescript
const settings = await dbWorkerClient.call("getApiKeyDecrypted");
if (settings) {
  // API key is encrypted, decrypt using SecureStorage
  const decryptedKey = SecureStorage.decrypt(settings.apiKey);
}
```

#### `saveSettings(params: { userId: string; apiKey: string }): Promise<void>`

Saves or updates API credentials. API key should be encrypted before saving.

**Example:**

```typescript
const encryptedKey = SecureStorage.encrypt("your-api-key");
await dbWorkerClient.call("saveSettings", {
  userId: "123456",
  apiKey: encryptedKey,
});
```

#### `markPostAsViewed(params: { postId: number }): Promise<void>`

Marks a post as viewed in the database.

**Example:**

```typescript
await dbWorkerClient.call("markPostAsViewed", { postId: 123 });
```

#### `togglePostFavorite(params: { postId: number }): Promise<void>`

Toggles the favorite status of a post in the database.

**Example:**

```typescript
await dbWorkerClient.call("togglePostFavorite", { postId: 123 });
```

#### `searchArtists(params: { query: string }): Promise<{ id: number; label: string }[]>`

Searches for artists in the local database by name or tag.

**Example:**

```typescript
const results = await dbWorkerClient.call("searchArtists", {
  query: "artist",
});
```

#### `backup(): Promise<{ backupPath: string }>`

Creates a timestamped backup of the database.

**Example:**

```typescript
const result = await dbWorkerClient.call("backup");
console.log(`Backup created at: ${result.backupPath}`);
```

#### `restore(backupPath: string): Promise<void>`

Restores the database from a backup file. Worker thread is terminated and reinitialized after restore.

**Example:**

```typescript
await dbWorkerClient.restore("/path/to/backup.db");
```

## Migrations

### Generating Migrations

When modifying the schema (`src/main/db/schema.ts`), generate a migration:

```bash
npm run db:generate
```

This creates a new migration file in the `drizzle/` directory.

### Running Migrations

Migrations are automatically run on application startup via `src/main/db/migrate.ts`.

**Manual execution:**

```bash
npm run db:migrate
```

### Migration Files

Migrations are stored in `drizzle/`:

- SQL files: `0000_*.sql`
- Metadata: `meta/_journal.json`
- Snapshots: `meta/*_snapshot.json`

**Example Migration:**

```sql
CREATE TABLE `artists` (
  `id` integer PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT NOT NULL,
  `username` text NOT NULL,
  `api_endpoint` text NOT NULL,
  `last_post_id` integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
  `new_posts_count` integer DEFAULT 0 NOT NULL,
  `last_checked` integer,
  `created_at` integer DEFAULT (unixepoch()) NOT NULL
);
```

## Drizzle ORM

### Configuration

**File:** `drizzle.config.ts`

```typescript
export default defineConfig({
  schema: "./src/main/db/schema.ts",
  out: "./drizzle",
  dialect: "sqlite",
  dbCredentials: {
    url: "./metadata.db",
  },
});
```

### Query Examples

**Select All Artists:**

```typescript
const artists = await db.query.artists.findMany({
  orderBy: [asc(schema.artists.username)],
});
```

**Find Artist by ID:**

```typescript
const artist = await db.query.artists.findFirst({
  where: eq(schema.artists.id, artistId),
});
```

**Insert Artist:**

```typescript
const result = await db
  .insert(schema.artists)
  .values(artistData)
  .returning({ id: schema.artists.id });
```

**Update Artist:**

```typescript
await db
  .update(schema.artists)
  .set({
    lastPostId: newPostId,
    newPostsCount: count,
    lastChecked: new Date(), // Uses timestamp mode
  })
  .where(eq(schema.artists.id, artistId));
```

## Database Studio

Drizzle Kit provides a database studio for viewing and editing data:

```bash
npm run db:studio
```

This opens a web interface at `http://localhost:4983` (default).

## Best Practices

### 1. Type Safety

Always use Drizzle's inferred types:

```typescript
// Good
const artist: Artist = await dbService.getTrackedArtists()[0];

// Bad
const artist: any = await dbService.getTrackedArtists()[0];
```

### 2. Error Handling

Always handle database errors:

```typescript
try {
  const artist = await dbService.addArtist(data);
} catch (error) {
  logger.error("Database error:", error);
  throw error;
}
```

### 3. Transactions

For multiple related operations, use transactions:

```typescript
// Example (to be implemented)
await db.transaction(async (tx) => {
  await tx.insert(schema.artists).values(artistData);
  await tx.insert(schema.posts).values(postData);
});
```

### 4. Indexes

Add indexes for frequently queried columns:

```typescript
// Example (to be added)
export const artists = sqliteTable(
  "artists",
  {
    // ... columns
  },
  (table) => ({
    usernameIdx: index("username_idx").on(table.username),
  })
);
```

## Backup and Recovery

### Backup

The application provides built-in backup functionality:

1. **Manual Backup:** Use `window.api.createBackup()` or the Backup Controls UI component
2. **Backup Location:** Backups are stored in the user data directory with timestamped filenames
3. **Backup Format:** Full SQLite database copy

**Example:**

```typescript
const result = await window.api.createBackup();
if (result.success) {
  console.log(`Backup created at: ${result.path}`);
}
```

### Recovery

**Using the Application:**

1. Use `window.api.restoreBackup()` or the Backup Controls UI component
2. Select a backup file from the file dialog
3. Application will automatically restart after restore

**Manual Recovery:**

If the database becomes corrupted and you need to restore manually:

1. Stop the application
2. Locate the backup file (in user data directory)
3. Copy the backup file to replace `metadata.db`
4. Restart the application (migrations will run automatically)

**Note:** The application will automatically reload after restore to ensure all components are reinitialized with the restored data.

## Performance Considerations

1. **Worker Thread Isolation:** Database operations run in a separate thread, preventing main process blocking
2. **Indexes:** Add indexes on frequently queried columns
3. **Batch Operations:** Use transactions for multiple inserts
4. **Query Optimization:** Use Drizzle's query builder efficiently
5. **Connection Pooling:** SQLite uses a single connection in the worker thread (better-sqlite3)
6. **RPC Pattern:** Worker communication uses correlation IDs for efficient request/response matching

## Future Enhancements

Planned database improvements:

- ⏳ **Full-text search indexes for tags (FTS5):** Planned but not implemented
  - **Current:** Standard indexes only (`artistIdIdx`, `isViewedIdx`, `publishedAtIdx`, `isFavoritedIdx`)
  - **Target:** FTS5 virtual table for efficient tag searching
  - **Status:** See [Roadmap](./roadmap.md#-technical-improvements-from-audit) for implementation plan
- ✅ **Favorites System:** Implemented with `isFavorited` field and index
- Post deduplication logic
- Statistics tables for analytics
- Export/import functionality
- Database compaction utilities
